
## Actively Participate in Your Education

A ratio of 3:1 is a common formula used to define student success in a course, with three parts assigned to the student and one part to the professor. Broken down hourly, it means, that, for every hour you spend in class, you *should* spend three hours doing research, reading, doing homework, going over your notes, re-writing your notes, seeking help online, and possibly making appointments to see me in person. This is a general formula — Some students succeed with less time, others need more. A successful use of your time might look like the following:

1. **Take notes.** Unless you have eidetic memory, take notes. This may seem obvious, but I have encountered situations in which poor-performing students *did not* take notes and could not understand why they were failing class. Consider the Cornell Note-Taking System. Also, consider investing in a smart pen, such as the LiveScribe pen, which will pay itself back in your overall academic success. Also, try sharing notes with others so they can share with you. Multiple perspectives on the same material is always helpful. 
2. **Immediately re-write your notes from class.** Re-writing or re-typing your notes immediately after class reinforces the material from the lecture. The sooner you do this, the more likely it is that you will retain what you learned in class.
3. **Add notes to your notes.** If you use the Cornell Note-Taking system, write comments in the left margin. This allows you to re-word concepts discussed in class, further reinforcing your understanding of the material.
4. **Study and re-write the code written in class and shared on GitHub.** By going over the code in class and re-writing the examples, you will be making the code your own, in turn, gathering a firm understanding of how code, browsers, and files work in concert to create web pages.
5. **Search for terms you do not understand.** You are bound to encounter many terms and ideas you do not understand. Highlight them, then search for them on the Internet. Read multiple definitions and take notes.
6. **Ask questions in our Google Group.** If you would ask a question in class because it pertains to material that relates to all the students, then it is apt to be asked in the Google Group. Make sure to follow the protocol discussed on the first day of class for asking questions on the Google Group.
7. **Make an appointment to meet with me.** If, after carrying out steps 1 – 6, you do not understand something, make an appointment to see me, in person or via Skype, as I do not use email to communicate with students for help. When we meet, have questions prepared.
8. **Ask questions in class.** If you have a question, please, please ask it. You are causing yourself a great dis-service by not asking questions in class. The full experience of attending lectures includes the interaction between professors and students.
